Alright! Now, in this video, we are going
to take a look at updating a category
and setting up the controller actions to
do that. This is going to look a lot
like the regular Spring MVC stuff. So,
let's go ahead and implement the mapping
for that. Now, we want to return back a
mono of the updated category. So, that's
going to be our return type. We'll just be
really creative and call this update for
the controller method. And now, what we
want to do is take in a String ID and
also then the Category, and we'll
decorate this with the annotations for
WebFlux here
in just a second. And in this case, we are
going to take in the category and set
the ID and the ID value passed in.
Then, we will return back.
We're going to save that entity.
I'm going to hover over this and we can
see that the Spring Data Reactive
Repository for MongoDB is going to
return back a Mono of the Category, so
that's what we want to be returning back
here. So now, let's go ahead and decorate
this, or working with a Spring WebFlux.
So, we're going to do it PutMapping, and
in this case, we'll go ahead and just.
It's going to be the exact same URL, that
we are dealing with for gets. But now, we
are going to do a PUT. So,api/v1/categories
and we are going to extract out the ID
value. And just like the get, we are going
to say...
In here, we want to tell WebFlux that
that's going to be in the body,
using their RequestBody annotation. So,
you can see right here, this here really
isn't utilizing reactive types, and to be
honest, I don't know how reactive that is
underneath the covers within the
WebFlux framework. So, I need to research
that personally. And this is something
here is really being done to
maintain compatibility with the Spring
MVC API. Know that, the Spring team is
definitely paying attention to that. I'm
using these annotations and trying to
make this as much as possible work just
like Spring MVC, so people can have an
easier time adopting it. So, I would
not be surprised if we see some changes
here, some enhanced capabilities to get a
leverage to those reactive types and
functional programming a little bit more.
That could change in the future. But
as right now, at the time of
recording, it is December 2017 and Spring
Boot M.7 is just out. So, Spring 5 is
still pretty new, The reactive types is
still pretty new. So, this could very much
change. Now, with that said, let's go ahead
and write our unit tests for those. So,
I'm going to come over here to my test,
and we'll create a new test method, and
we'll call that test createAndUpdate,
and we are going to say given categoryRepository.save. And we're going to say
Category.class.
And this time, we say Mono. Just create
and
so we're really not testing the
properties there, so we just return
back an empty object.
Oh it should be just.
There. Now, we're happy.
I'm going to steal this right here, just
to expedite things a little bit. So,
that's what we want to update. Got that
update. Now, let's go ahead and setup her.
So now this time, we want to do a put. So
remember, we are testing the put action
for the update.
So, let's go and copy that URI value.
So here, we have a little bit different
pattern than we did with the post. So we
are doing a put against the same URI. And
this time, we want to actually put in a
value here. So, just some ID value is fine.
We're really not testing that, but we do
pass in the category to update. Now, I get
a little typo there. Let's go ahead and
fix that.
Then, we do the exchange and we're just
saying expect status there. So, the web
TestClient does have some pretty robust
capabilities. I'm not getting into a lot
of those right now, but we are just
saying, I want to do a put with a
category to update, and we are expecting
back a status of okay. And this is in
contrast is created. So, let's go ahead
and run that.
Okay, so our test is successfully passing.
So, just to recap, what's going on here
for your your benefit, we are doing a PutMapping against api/v1/categories and
that ID value, and we have a Mono being
returned back by the update method, and
that method is going to try to parse in
a PathVariable off the URL, for the ID
value, and then also, the RequestBody of
the Category, and we are going to take
that Category that gets passed in set
the ID value of it, and then, we are going
to save that so that this is processing
an update. And then, in our tests, we have
a fairly simple test here. So, on line 57,
you can see that we are setting up the
Mockito Mock, the saveAll, and actually,
that should be...
That's actually on the wrong line. I'm
sorry. On line 71 72, we are setting up
the Mockito Mock for a save. Supposed to
saveAll. So, we are saying save any
Category, so we are taking any Category
cuts and they were not doing any
validation of what's being passed in, and
we are going to return back a Mono ,and
we're not testing the Mono being
returned back in this particular test.
So, we can just returned back an empty
object to keep everything happy. And then,
on line 75, we're setting up the object
that we're going to pass in. Now, the web
TestClient is going to take this object
and parse it into JSON, and then, exercise
our API. Make sure that all the
bindings are working properly for us. So,
it works a lot like the MockMvc client.
So, nice little utility here for testing
because it is exercising a lot of the
HTTP stuff for us. So then, we do take
that object, it gets converted. We run the
exchange using the controller methods
and we're just doing simple assertions
here to expect back the status. Make sure
that it passes back and okay. So, let's go
ahead, and I always like to run all the
tests after it creates something like
this. So, make sure that our whole our
unit tests are passing. So everything is
happy now. So I'm going to commit this
into GitHub for your reference.